DOCSP-37664 Add Time Series Migration Task (#112)
mongodb/docs-relational-migrator: source/mapping-rules/mapping-rule-options/time-series.txt

.. _rm-timeseries:

===========

> Time Series

Reviewer: [Question]

Since this is a task page, should this page title begin with a verb? 

Per the [style guide](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/information-types/prototypes/task/): "Task page titles begin with a present-tense action verb."

===========

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can configure mapping rules to migrate a table that contains a date 

> time column as a :ref:`time series collections <manual-timeseries-collection>`. 

Reviewer: [question]

I typically see "datetime" written as a single word. If it appears as two words in the UI, let's leave as two.

> time column as a :ref:`time series collections <manual-timeseries-collection>`. 

Reviewer: Typo

```suggestion
time column as a :ref:`time series collection <manual-timeseries-collection>`. 
```

Time series collections efficiently store time series data. In time 
series collections, writes are organized so that data from the same 
source is stored alongside other data points from a similar point in time.

About this Task
---------------

Compared to normal collections, storing time series data in time series
collections improves query efficiency and reduces the disk usage for

> time series data and secondary indexes.

Reviewer: Can we add a link for "secondary indexes"? This is a new term on this page and I think it'd help to provide a link with more info.

Before you Begin
----------------

For full details on each time series field component, see 
:ref:`time-series-fields`.

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style:  connected

   .. step:: Select a collection with a date time field 

>       a. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Mapping` screen.

Reviewer: [question]

Just checking, here we say "Mapping screen", and in step 2a we say "Mappings pange". Is this intentional?

      #. On the :guilabel:`Schema model` pane under the 
         :guilabel:`MongoDB` header, click on a collection that has a 
         date time field.

>    .. step:: Configure the time-series collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. step:: Configure the time series collection
```

     
      a. On the :guilabel:`Mappings` pane, click the :icon-lg:`Edit` 
         :guilabel:`Configure` button.
      #. Select the :guilabel:`Time Series Collection` radio button.
      #. Select a :guilabel:`Time Field`.
      #. (Optional) Select a :guilabel:`Meta Field`.
      #. Select a :guilabel:`Granularity`.
      #. (Optional) Select a :guilabel:`Expire After Seconds`.
      #. Click :guilabel:`Save And Close`.

         .. note::

>             Once a collection is configured with a time series field, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            When a collection is configured with a time series field, 
```

This is a nit, but I think it helps to be clear that we don't mean "once" as "just this one time".

>             the :icon-lg:`TimeSeries` icon displays next to the collection

Reviewer: It might help to state what this icon means:

```suggestion
            the time series icon :icon-lg:`TimeSeries` displays next to the collection
```

            name on the :guilabel:`Schema model` pane.

Example
-------

The following example converts the ``rental_date`` column into a time
series field in MongoDB:

> .. tabs::

Reviewer: Do you feel the tabs add a lot of value here? As a reader, I feel that it would be helpful to be able to see both the input and output simultaneously to help see the mappings.

.. _rm-timeseries:

==================================
Configure a Time Series Collection
==================================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

You can configure mapping rules to migrate a table that contains a 

> datetime column as a :ref:`time series collection <manual-timeseries-collection>`. 

Reviewer: [question / suggestion]

I feel like "to" might make more sense than "as" here?

```suggestion
datetime column to a :ref:`time series collection <manual-timeseries-collection>`. 
```

Time series collections efficiently store time series data. In time 
series collections, writes are organized so that data from the same 
source is stored alongside other data points from a similar point in time.

About this Task
---------------

- You can use :ref:`field customizations <rm-field-customizations>` to 

>   convert string columns to datetime in Relational Migrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  convert string columns to datetime fields in Relational Migrator.
```

> - CDC jobs that have time series configurations do not create the 

Reviewer: Consider using the `:abbr:` directive here for CDC.

  time series collections until the CDC job completes. 

- Compared to normal collections, storing time series data in time series
  collections improves query efficiency and reduces the disk usage for
  time series data and :term:`secondary indexes <secondary index>`.

- Use cases for time series collections include 
  :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`, forecasting, and time based analysis.

Before you Begin
----------------

- For full details on each time series field component, see 
  :ref:`time-series-fields`.

- If the time series data in your sync job does not require any 
  complex transformations you may benefit from migrating your time 
  series data as a separate sync job. This can make it easier to 

>   preload a large time series collection and once completed migrate 
>   the rest of your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  preload a large time series collection and migrate the rest of your data after the initial job completes.
```

> - If your migrating larges amounts of data, consider using 

Reviewer: Not sure what this is meant to say. Review this phrase for typos.

  :ref:`table filters <rm-table-filters>` to batch your sync jobs 
  based on logical conditions. For example, you might import one year 

>   of historical data at a time using table filters. This allows a large 
>   job to be broken into more manageable segments.

Reviewer: Remove passive voice:

```suggestion
  of historical data at a time using table filters. This allows you to break down a large 
  job into more manageable segments.
```

- If a long-running sync job fails unexpectedly (for example, due to a 
  database outage) and is not able to automatically recover, you may 
  be able to use :ref:`table filters <rm-table-filters>` to create a 
  new sync job that picks up from where the previous one left off. This 

>   approach saves you from re-importing your previous data from scratch.

Reviewer: Consider rewording "from scratch" to avoid idiomatic language.

```suggestion
  approach lets you avoid having to repeat the entire sync job.
```

Steps
-----

.. procedure::
   :style:  connected

   .. step:: Select a collection with a datetime field 

      a. Navigate to the :guilabel:`Mapping` screen.
      #. On the :guilabel:`Schema model` pane under the 
         :guilabel:`MongoDB` header, click on a collection that has a 
         datetime field.

   .. step:: Configure the time series collection

      a. On the :guilabel:`Mappings` pane, click the :icon-lg:`Edit` 
         :guilabel:`Configure` button.
      #. Select the :guilabel:`Time Series Collection` radio button.
      #. Select a :guilabel:`Time Field`.

         ``Time Field`` is the name of the field which contains the 
         datetime field in each time series document. Documents in a 
         time series collection must have a valid BSON date data type. 
         For details on converting a field to a datetime type in 
         Relational Migrator, see 
         :ref:`field customizations <rm-field-customizations>`.

         .. note::

            If you have multiple datetime columns must select a 
            single field per timeseries collection.

>       #. (Optional) Select a :guilabel:`Meta Field`.

Reviewer: Remove punctuation from step titles.

>          ``Meta Field`` is the name of the field which contains metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         ``Meta Field`` is the name of the field that contains metadata
```

>          in each time series document. The metadata in the specified 
>          field should be data that is used to label a unique series of

Reviewer: Suggest rewriting this to use Vale's feedback of avoiding "should":

```suggestion
         in each time series document. The metadata in the specified 
         field is used to label a unique series of
```

>          documents. The metadata should rarely, if ever, change.

Reviewer: Consider removing "if ever" for minimalism.

      #. Select a :guilabel:`Granularity`.

>          ``Granularity`` should be a value that most closely matches 

Reviewer: Suggest incorporating Vale's feedback to avoid "should" here. Consider:

"Specify a ``Granularity`` value that most closely matches..."

>          the time between consecutive incoming timestamps. This

Reviewer: Consider clarifying what "this" is:

```suggestion
         the time between consecutive incoming timestamps. Setting the correct granularity
```

         improves performance by optimizing how MongoDB stores data in the 
         collection. Possible values are ``seconds``, ``minutes``, and 
         ``hours``.

      #. (Optional) Select a :guilabel:`Expire After Seconds`.

         ``Expire After Seconds`` enables the automatic deletion 
         of documents in a time series collection by specifying the 
         number of seconds after which documents expire. MongoDB 
         deletes expired documents automatically.

      #. Click :guilabel:`Save And Close`.

         .. note::

            When a collection is configured with a time series field, 
            the time series icon :icon-lg:`TimeSeries` displays next to the collection
            name on the :guilabel:`Schema model` pane. This icon 

>             indicates the collection is a time series collection.

Reviewer: I don't think the final sentence in this note adds much. Consider removing.
